Many in the world highly value a university education and one reason is because it can
qualify them for a desired profession such as a doctor or a lawyer or an engineer.
But what does your Gilead training qualify you to do?
To answer that question, let's look at the example of Jesus Christ because isn't it true
Jesus received extensive training for his important assignment that he would have on the
earth.
And in John 828, he said, just as the father taught me, I speak these things.
Well, certainly the training that Jehovah gave to Jesus prepared him to know what to
accomplish when he was on earth with his assignment.
And so there was fulfilling scores of prophecies.
There is the selection and training of his disciples of making Jehovah's name and personality
manifest and of course laying down his life as a sacrifice which would sanctify Jehovah's
name and provide a way for salvation to man.
But the training Jesus received not only prepared him to know what to do with his assignment
but also how to carry it out.
And this is really the focus of our talk.
Read with me please, our key scripture in the book of Matthew, chapter 20, in verse 28.
This reveals really the attitude, the approach that characterized everything that Jesus did
on earth, Matthew 2028.
This as the son of man came not to be ministered to but to minister and to give his life as
a ransom in exchange for many.
Jesus came to minister.
His training prepared him to minister to others and that humble approach characterized his
entire ministry.
It permeated everything that he did on earth.
There are a couple of examples.
First he preached and taught others even when he was tired and exhausted.
One example is in the book of John.
I invite you to turn there with me, John chapter 4 in verses 6 and 7.
So Jesus and his disciples are on the way to Galilee and they take this route through
Samaria and Jesus is there.
They stop at the well and he sends the disciples off to get food and we pick up the account
John 4.6.
In fact, Jacob's well was there.
Now Jesus tired out as he was from the journey was sitting at the well.
It was about the sixth hour.
Now interestingly the Bible indicates that this is the only or the study note indicates
that this is the only place in the scriptures where Jesus is said to be tired out.
Now that's more than just tired.
He was spent, wasn't he?
But what happens?
Verse 7, a woman of Samaria came to draw water.
What would Jesus do?
Here we see him in the illustration.
Would he take a pass?
How witness to the next one?
I am just exhausted.
No.
He ministered to her.
Please, give me a drink.
He says.
And that we know leads into a wonderful witness that he gave to her.
It leads to them staying there for a couple of days and witnessing to others and many become
believers in that area.
He ministered to others even when he was tired out.
Now the other account that might come to your mind when you think about Jesus teaching
others when he was tired is the account in Mark 6.
We won't read it.
But we remember this is when the 12 apostles had just come back from a preaching campaign
and they're excited but understandably tired.
In fact Mark 631 says that they were so busy, there were so many people coming and going
that they didn't even have time to eat a meal.
Now interestingly it was also around the same time that Jesus learns about the death
of John the Baptist.
So understandably he recommends to his disciples, let's go to a lonely place and let's get
a bit of rest.
But what happens?
The crowd finds out where they're going, runs ahead of them and is waiting for Jesus asking
for more when they arrive at the other side of the shore.
Well, what would Jesus do?
He's tired, he's hungry, he's grieving, but he ministers to them.
Mark 634 says he started it to teach them many things.
The parallel account in Luke 9 says he received them kindly so he truly ministered to them
even when he was tired.
Here's a second way, we see Jesus ministering to others throughout his ministry.
He kept patiently teaching his disciples.
His disciples were a little slow to grasp, some important lessons weren't they?
How often did they argue over which one of them seemed to be the greatest?
Yet Jesus never gave up on him, he never lost his temper, never raised his voice, never
be raided them, but instead he kept looking for new ways to teach them this important
lesson.
Up until the night before his death, what did he do?
Turn to John 13.
Please, John 13 verses 4 and 5 at the evening meal.
He says he got up from the evening meal and laid aside his outer garments.
After taking a towel, he wrapped it around his waist.
After that, he put water into a basin and started to wash the feet of the disciples
and to dry them off with the towel that was wrapped around him.
Here we see in our image Jesus doing this remarkable feat.
The study note says this was the slave's job.
The slave would have normally done this, but here he takes that towel, he wraps the towel
around him, girds himself essentially, he puts on the slave's apron, doesn't he?
And he washes their feet one after the other.
He truly ministered to them.
And in verse 15, he says, I set the pattern for you that just as I did to you, you should
also do.
So this is the pattern that they too should minister to others.
Now, finally, in a superlative expression of his love, he surrendered his life as a ransom
for sinful mankind.
And here we see him on the stake, a torturous death of paying that ransom.
Like our theme scripture says, the Son of Man came to minister and to give his life a
ransom in exchange for many.
Could anyone minister in a greater way than that?
Millions, perhaps billions, will inherit everlasting life because of Jesus ministering to
others in such a self-sacrificing way.
Jesus came to minister.
Jesus training prepared him to minister to others and we see that humble approach of
serving others and everything that he did.
So now we come back to our original question.
What did your Gilead training prepare you to do?
You know the answer.
It prepared you to be ministers.
So how can you do that?
When you arrive at your assignment, how can you use the things that you learned in Gilead
to that end?
When you arrive at your assignment, how can you show the friends that you have come to
minister?
Well, to answer that question, let's first talk to the sisters.
How can you put on your slave's apron and minister to others in your assignments?
We'll consider two ways.
The first way is by your example.
Isn't it true?
We don't often know when someone is observing us or our example is instructing or encouraging
or helping others.
And yet it is a powerful way to minister to others.
Let's look at an example in the book of Mark chapter 12.
Mark chapter 12 and we'll look at this account in verses 41 through 44.
So it's the final week of Jesus' life and he goes to the temple in beginning Mark 12
41.
He sat down with the treasury chests in view and began observing how the crowd was dropping
money into the treasury chest and many rich people were dropping in many coins.
Now a poor widow came and dropped in two small coins of very little value.
So he called his disciples to him and said to them, truly I say to you that this poor
widow put in more than all the others who put money into the treasury chests, for they
all put in out of their surplus, but she, out of her want, put in everything she had,
all she had to live on.
The example of that poor widow encouraged Jesus, but also provided a lesson that he could
use to teach his disciples and then, by including it in God's word, it instructs everyone
who would read the Bible in the future.
But you think about the widow, here we have her in the picture, does she know that the
son of God was observing her?
Likely not, we don't know, but often we don't notice that.
Here he was observing her, but this certainly isn't why she did what she did.
She wasn't doing it because well maybe the son of God will see me.
Rather, she was a spiritual person and so she did the right thing for the right reason.
In her mind, it was her privilege and her responsibility to contribute toward Jehovah's
work.
And so he did what was right.
Well, the fact was though that Jesus was observing her and he could use her example
to teach others.
Well, similarly, you may not know when your example is being observed by others, but you
are spiritual women.
And so you do the right thing for the right reason, whether people observe you or not.
But invariably, as you follow this course day by day, day by day, humble ones will observe
your example and they will benefit from it.
And it may be even a little thing, like even if they just happen to see you stoop down
and pick up a little trash that fell in the hallway on accident, someone didn't notice
and you stopped to pick it up.
Or maybe when you steer the conversation to the positive, maybe they'll see you take
an interest in others when they know that you're tired or they see you support your husband
without complaining.
Whatever it may be, the friends might notice these things and benefit from your example.
And it really is a powerful way that you can minister to others.
Here's a second way that you can minister to others.
And this is by your words.
Now, speaking of the capable wife, Proverbs 31, in verse 26 says this, Proverbs 31, 26,
she opens her mouth in wisdom.
The law of kindness is on her tongue, isn't that beautiful to think that our speech could
be marked by wisdom and kindness?
But the truth is, mature spiritual sisters are known for their kind, insightful advice.
And I think every one of us could cite examples in our life of mature sisters who helped
us along the way with their interest in us and their sharing their insightful words
of guidance.
And when we think about women like that, we can't help but think about Abigail.
So here she is, humbly on her knees before David, speaking words of wisdom to him.
She's using principles that she gleaned from the law and helped him to see that his actions,
if he moved forward, would incur blood guilt.
She also tactfully reminded him that Jehovah had anointed him to be the future king of Israel.
So he wouldn't want anything to solely his record or to cause him regret.
And even in David's emotionally charged state, her words of wisdom made him stop in his
tracks and change his course.
Well, how can you use words to minister to others like that?
Well, it's not uncommon in talks like this at Gilead that we're reminded.
We may not want to quote Gilead all the time that in Gilead we learn this and Gilead we
learn that and we know that you won't do that.
We understand why.
But the fact is, your Gilead training has deepened your well of good things to share.
And so humbly after listening, you may find opportunities where you can share these good
things with others.
And it's often those informal, spontaneous one-on-one conversations where we get an opportunity
to do this.
Maybe they crop up at work or in the hallway on the way home from work or between doors
in the ministry or before and after the meetings at the Kingdom Hall where we can just take
the time and listen to others, listen to what is on their hearts and mind.
And then we just, not preach to them, we just share Jehovah's thinking on the matter
at hand.
And that has a tremendous impact.
And we truly love you, sisters, for your kindness and your spiritual insight.
It really is a beautiful way that you can minister to others.
So those are two ways our sisters can minister to others by your example and by your words.
Now what about you, brothers?
How can you put on your slave's apron and minister to others in your assignment?
Well, certainly all the things that we said to the sisters would apply to you as well.
You can minister to others by your example and your words as well.
But Jehovah has also determined to use the brothers in positions of oversight to take
the lead in his organization.
So when you arrive to your assignment, likely you will have some responsibility or oversight
in your work.
But as Jesus example taught us, those in authority should also be ministers.
So how can you use your Gilead training then to minister to others the way you carry
out your assignment?
Here are two ways.
The first way, approach your assignment as a shepherd.
Approach your assignment as a shepherd.
David set a fine example in this way because David, as a young shepherd boy in the field,
learned many things that would become very useful to him later in life and in his service
to Jehovah.
He learned how to play the harp.
He learned how to use the sling.
He learned how to live outdoors.
But notice how his time as a shepherd affected his approach to the kingship.
Terminate me, please, to the book of Psalms.
And let's read Psalm 78 verses 70 through 72.
Psalm 78, 70 through 72.
He chose David his servant and took him from the sheep pins, from tending the nursing
use.
He made him the shepherd over Jacob, his people, and over Israel, his inheritance.
He shepherded them with integrity of heart and with skillful hands, he led them.
So in time, David did become king, didn't he?
He was given theocratic authority over all of the people of Israel.
But he didn't approach that assignment as a dictator.
He never lorded it over the people of Israel, rather he approached it as a shepherd.
And he viewed those precious sheep as just that sheep who needed to be fed and protected
and cared for.
And it characterized his kingship, didn't it?
The verse says that he shepherded with integrity of heart and with skillful hands.
He truly ministered to them.
Just like David, minister to those whom you oversee, approach your assignment as a shepherd.
And when they sense that you are truly concerned about their well-being, about their workload,
about their training, when they see you often because you get out of your office and you
visit them regularly and you shepherd them, then they will feel secure.
They will know that they have an overseer who loves them and is watching out for them
and they will find joy in their assignment.
And they'll even be able to endure a difficult work situation for a time because they know
they have a way out.
They know they have an overseer who is aware of their situation and is doing what he can
to assist them.
Here's a second way that you can minister to those whom you oversee.
And that is by showing honor and respect for them.
Termeth me please to the book of Romans chapter 12.
Romans 12 and let's read verse 10.
Romans 12, 10, and brotherly love have tender affection for one another in showing honor
to one another take the lead.
Certainly overseers should take the lead in showing honor to others.
Not truly every servant of Jehovah deserves honor, isn't that true and why?
It's because they were created in Jehovah God's image.
Each one is in a dedicated relationship with him.
They are praying to Jehovah Jehovah is listening to their prayers and answering their prayers.
And also the sheep belong to Jehovah, don't they?
Purchase with the precious blood of his only begotten son.
And in Bethel we have an added reason to give them honor because each one has received
his or her assignment from Jehovah.
The friends in our department, this is their sacred service, this is their assignment
given to them from Jehovah and they know it well.
And so each one deserves respect and honor.
Well how will they sense that we truly honor them from the heart?
They will sense it when we take note of their work and commend them frequently and sincerely.
They'll sense it when we follow through on their requests promptly.
And they'll sense it when we listen to their suggestions to improve the work.
And when they do that, if they should suggest an improvement, it doesn't mean that they
are challenging our authority, it doesn't mean that they're being presumptuous, it doesn't
mean that we were doing it wrong before.
Even Jehovah invited suggestions from his angels in the case of Ahab, didn't he?
And he approved one of their suggestions.
Well in these and other ways we can show honor to our workmates.
We show them that we have come to minister.
So what does your Gilead training qualify you, prepare you to do?
It prepares you to minister to others.
To what characterized Jesus ministry, may it characterize your service as well.
And as we learn sisters can do that through your example and your words, brothers can do
that in addition to that by approaching your assignment as a shepherd and also by truly
taking the lead in showing honor and respect to others.
There's no doubt that Jesus was eager to show Jehovah that He benefited from the fine
training that He received from Him.
And so not only did He do what Jehovah asked Him to do, He carried it out in the way that
Jehovah wanted Him to carry it out.
Well we know that you too are eager to apply the good things that you learn in Gilead.
And so as you begin to think about maybe some of the things that you will do differently
when you arrive at your assignment, give close attention to how you will carry out your
work, show that you have come to minister.
And when you do that, you will show that you truly benefited from your Gilead training.
The brothers will love you and above all you will have the favor and approval of our
God, Jehovah.